
back attacks
choke
choke into mount



Lesson 12)

Keeping mount position drills:
When opponent is pushing on your shoulders, be in low mount. Lean on one arm as bring the other in, then bring the other. 

When opponent is pushing your hips, cup their elbow to lift their arm and then bring your knee in high under their armpit.

3 mount attack sequence: 
1) Choke from mount:
Lean to your right. Left hand palm up 4 fingers in goes deep across into opponents collar. 
Right hand circle around to your left and move your head into the ground to your left. 
Right hand palm down grab near opponents neck with bottom 3 fingers. Bring head to the middle next to opponent. 
Use belly and hip thrust with hands to choke.

2)Americana from mount:
Opponent blocks 1) as soon as put left hand in. Grab their hand with left hand.
posture up and also grab their elbow with your right hand. Use body to bring it to the ground. 
Americana position. Lean back to bring their elbow under shoulder level. Lean to the left as lift.

3)Armbar from mount:
Can defend Americana if they're attacking your left hand by grabbing your left hand 
with your right hand and bringing it across your body to the right.
If opponent does this, keep Americana grip and put their hand on the ground on the other side to your left.
 Left leg up and against their hip. Right knee to opponents head. Lean left, leg across and Armbar. 

De la hiva drill sequence:

Exercise for preventing guard pass:
Your on your back. Opponent steps to your right. Keeping elbows and knees frame closed, turn to your right towards opponent. 
Without putting foot on the floor, use bottom right leg with bicycle kick and shrimp to turn to your left with hips up to face opponent again.

1) getting de la hiva
When have the chance, use left foot to hook inside opponents right knee and bring it forward. 
This enables you to catch opponents right ankle with your left hand. Do this when opponent is close, not far so don't have to open up your frame. 
Then use right foot on opponents left hip to push them back and stop them coming forward. 
Then take left foot from inside and wrap it around into de la hiva and turn to the side. 
If possible use your right hand to grab opponents right collar and keep them down.

2) sweep if opponent postures up
If opponent postures up and can't grab them with your right hand, bring left foot out of de la Riva and push it against opponents right hip. 
Left foot then moves inside behind opponents left knee. Important to do one leg at a time as should always have one foot on opponents hip to stop them moving forward. 
Use feet to push opponents weight to your right, then use ankle grip to take them down. 
When they fall, keep to your left side, hide your left leg by bringing it back and go up into combat position with right knee up.

3)sweep if opponent defends 2)
If opponent resists 2), pull them forward with your left foot hook. Grab their right ankle with your right hand.
Push forward with left foot on their hip and right foot hooking behind their knee and grips on their ankles.
Be on your left side and again hide left foot by bringing it back and go into combat position.  

-------------------------

1)Half guard to closed guard:
You have opponents right leg in half guard. 
Keep frame with your arms (right hand cupping opponents elbow, left hand on opponents shoulder with your forearm against their neck. 
A) shrimp to your left. Bring right knee in. Then reverse shrimp in the other direction to create space so can bring your leg around into closed guard. 
At the same time, use right hand to stretch out opponents arm.
B) keep right leg hooking opponents leg. Bring left knee low across opponents body, then open it up so it is diagonally across their body and keeping them away. 

Tip: whenever open half guard, put one foot ontop of the other first before fully opening the half guard. 

Back take from b)
Opponent tries to push your left knee down with their right hand. Stop your frame and put your right hand on their wrist and left hand behind opponents elbow. 
Drag them forward and turn to the side. Left hand on their waist. Sit up and put pressure on their right shoulder. Keep close so they can't put their right arm around you. 
Right hand on opponents collar. Fall to the side keeping on one shoulder. Right hand around opponents head. Left arm under their arm and get seatbelt. 
Hook opponents legs but never cross your legs.
Choke)
Left hand trap opponents lower arm and put it on their belly. Keep your head next to opponents and turn to the right to open up their neck. 
Move right hand under their neck up to their shoulder. Let go of opponents arm with your other arm and grab your hands together. Look to the left and squeeze elbows.

Escaping knee on the belly:
Opponent has right knee on your belly. Left hand cup outside of knee. Right hand use thumb to push away on opponents foot. 
Then shrimp to the left. Hands keep their knee from going forward as you shrimp away. 

Opponent has your back. They have a seatbelt with their right hand around your head and left hand under your arm gripping their hands together. 
They are leaning to the right with your right shoulder on the ground. 
First defend your neck by grabbing their right arm with both your hands.
Bring right knee in, kick it out and bring in quickly between opponents legs to escape their hook.
 If their legs are too closed, can hold opponents foot with your left hand to create a gap. 
1) turn to your left to free your back and bring your right elbow in and around to grab opponents right hip.
2) if opponent is too tight and cannot turn inwards, and they are keeping their left knee close to your back. 
Use your left hand to push their knee down and jump to other side of opponents body. Use right hand as a frame against opponents hip.

Tokei arm bars
1) when you have opponent in guard, use left hand to grab opponents right wrist. Use right hand to grip on outside of their right elbow. 
Drag their arm across your centreline to the right. Use left hand to keep back of opponents head down. Use left foot on their hip to spin to the side. 
Right leg pressure on their armpit. Left leg over their head and pressure down. Finish the armbar.
2)you have opponent in mune gatame with left arm around their head. They turn inwards to try and escape. Right hand foot Sao their left arm keeping elbow in. 
Left hand on their neck keeping pressure down and stopping them from moving. Left foot goes over their head. Sit down on the other side, keeping close to opponent and knees tight. 
Finish armbar. 

From knee shield:
Left knee shield across opponents body. Right leg in half guard position. Hands framing. 
1)
When opponent presses down on you, arm drag and turn to your left. Right elbow on the floor. Left hand around opponents waist. Get seatbelt and turn them to the side to take their back. 
2)
If opponents forward pressure is too much to turn to the side, can push their elbow away with your right hand and then turn to the left. 
3)
If opponent postures up, when you turn to the side, so cannot take their back. Use right hand to cup outside of opponents knee and push forward to flatten them out. 

Read naked choke;
Right hand around opponents neck. Elbow under their neck. Grab your left bicep. Left hand behind their head. 
Head looking left to allow right hand to go in deep but pushing opponents head to the right. Squeeze biceps.

Half guard escape counter:
You have opponents right leg in half guard. They try to escape by switching their hips and bringing left arm over your head (e.g. to grab your belt). 
1) if there is space, you can put left hand under their neck and right arm framing against their hip. Can then escape your head from under their arm and try to get on top.
2) if their hip is too close to your body so there is no room to frame with your right hand. Switch your left hand to go around their head and clinch them close. 
Open your half guard. Keep right knee bent. Left foot hooks underneath opponents right leg. Use your right hand to grab opponents right trousers near their foot. 
Look right but push opponent to the left. This gives you room to get your right leg out from underneath them. Shrimp to the side and take their back. 

Things to improve:
What to do when getting your guard passed
Escaping side control
Escaping back control
Escaping full guard
Escaping triangle
Passing guard

---------------------------

Passing half guard:
You are in top position and opponent has your right leg in half guard. First put left knee right against opponents belly. Right arm grab opponents back. Don't leave any space between your left knee and opponent. If they try to shrimp away, follow their hip and never leave any space between your two bodies. 

Need to get your left arm around their head. If they are framing against you, go under their arm to get under their head. Right arm needs to get underarm. After hold wrist to wrist with both thumbs and pull opponent close. If opponent has arm across your neck, look to the side and press down. 

1)
Keeping pressure on opponents head, bring your right foot to opponents butt to free your knee. Then twist your hips to the left and use left foot to help release your tight foot and pass the half guard. 
2)
Bring foot up and release knee as in 1). If opponent is blocking your hip so can't do 1) put right knee on ground to your right. Use left foot to stretch out opponents knees and then go into mount.
3)
If opponent has arm against your neck, grab opponents armpit with left hand to keep pressure. Use right hand to push their arm to the side so you are in kata gatame style position. Bring right knee to the right as in 2) slide left knee across to the right and sprawl. Then out pressure with bicep to do kata gatame choke. 

4) can move between 1) and 2)

Sleeve and lapel guard:
Get left handed judo cross grip (left hand on lapel, right hand on sleeve same side). Take a little hop forward and then turn to your right so right shoulder is on the ground. Right foot goes against opponents hip. Bent left knee and keep it away from opponent. 

1)
Pull opponent forward over your head as you shrimp to the right so you are facing opponent. Throw legs around opponent into guard. 

2)
If opponent puts weight back as you try to pull them forward. Right hand grabs their ankle. Left foot goes behind their right knee. Push with foot on their hip, pull with left foot hooked behind their knee. Go into battle stance.
3)
Keep their right hand to the right of your right knee. Take a swing and go into omoplata. 

Tip: battle pose to avoid getting scissor swept. 
Tip: learn to do reverse armbar. 
Tip: need better ways to pass open and closed guard

------------------------------

Defending from turtle position:
1) 
Opponent is to your left. You are in turtle. They attempt a clock choke. Defend your neck with your right hand. Left hand (near side to opponent) goes between your legs. 
You face to the right and roll over your left shoulder. Swing right leg very hard and wide, doing a big circle and use left leg to pivot and face your opponent. 
2) 
Opponent grabs your right lapel. Bring right arm back and clamp their arm above their elbow. Bring knees together. Stretch out left leg and roll to your right into reverse kesa gatame. 
Make sure left arm goes on other side of opponents body. 
3)
Triangle from guard:
Opponent is grabbing both your lapels. Bring your left hand in between the opponents arms. Put weight on your right elbow and lift yourself up, 
bringing your left arm deep around your opponents head to bring them down. Shrimp to the left and bring your right hand in and onto your opponents bicep. 
Shrimp more and bring left leg high on opponents back. Bring right knee in and push against opponents bicep. Grab opponents hand with your right hand and create 
space to throw your right leg over. 
Control opponents head with both your hands. If opponent postures up, move is lost. Bridge and use both hands under opponents hand to bring it across.
 Then immeditaely control opponents head again. Shrimp back to move up their body. Can adjust legs several times going side to side. Squeeze knees together to finish the move


--------------------------------



---------------------------------------


Revise - reverse half guard
- S Guard ( S Guard armbar) -> https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ka3yyHpHG9o

Reverse half guard sweep:
You have opponents right leg in half guard with your left arm around opponents back.
They jump over to your left. 
Face right and move knees to your right. 
Your right palm goes Infront of your right thigh and under opponents trapped knee
 palm open. Your right leg hooks the outside of their leg and kicks towards your 
head. Go into side control. 
If opponent jumps back to your right, use their momentum to push them forward and 
take their back. 


-------------------
Passing half guard


Opponent has your right leg in half guard.
They are framing.
Put left knee on opponents hip to prevent them getting their leg through to closed guard. 
Get left hand under their head and pull them towards you.
Get right hand under their far arm and get the body lock.
Flatten out opponent. Pull them towards you and keep your weight back. 
Put your left foot on opponents bottom leg. Free your knee from their half guard.
Switch your base 
1) 
Stretch out your left leg.
Switch legs into Kesa gatame position and free your right leg. Can use your left leg to push opponents top leg away. 
2)
If opponent frames against your hip with their right hand, they might be able to push your hip away and make room to close their guard. So instead of passing to the left, put your weight back and put right knee on the floor to your right. Use your feet to open opponents guard and then get your hooks in. 
 3)
Normally opponent will keep their left hand tight but if they ever overstretch, can use your right hand to push it across your face and trap it in kata gatame position. Then bring your right knee to the ground on your right. Life your hips and slide left knee to the ground so both your knees are together. Sprawl and get into kata gatame position. 
 

Revise 
How to open closed guard 



----------------

Guillotine seminar

1)
Basic attack
Opponent is on their knees with their hands on the floor. 
You are in front of them with your right knee on the floor and left leg outstretched for balance.
Your right hand cups underneath opponents chin. Your right ear is on opponents right shoulder and your right shoulder is on opponents back. Your left hand grabs the back of opponents right arm. 
If opponent moves backwards or forwards, keep the distance. 
Keep right elbow closed and close to your hip.
Move hand slightly up like going into wu Sao to create space under opponents chin. 
Then slide right arm through under opponents neck. Right arm should be relaxed. Slide arm all the way through and make contact with opponents neck at the last moment instead of trying to slip arm through gradually. Aim for elbow under opponents chin like rear naked choke. Keep ear on opponents shoulder throughout.
 Left hand then grabs your right hand.
Crunch your shoulders to stop opponent raising their head. 
Keeping warm on opponents shoulder, slide right knee forward between opponents legs. Left foot goes up under opponents body and right foot then goes up so you are in Hindi squat position. 
Keep right ear on opponent. Turn hips to the right and squeeze your arm. 

2)
If opponent postures up as come to the side. Stand up on your right leg. Step deep to opponents side. Swing left foot across opponents body and get hook. Finish guillotine. 

3)
If opponent counters with 'peek up'(grabs your elbow with their left hand and slides right foot out whilst raising head, to take your back) 
Keep the choke. Bring your knees to the ground. Sprawl as finish the choke.

4)
If opponent falls to their left shoulder.
Fall to your right. Swing legs up to trap opponents arms to stop them carrying on the roll. Fall to your right and complete the choke. 

From standing 

1) You are standing. Opponent is on floor trying to do a guard.
Use left hand to push opponents head to the side and get your right hand under their chin. Left hand control the outside of opponents right arm. 
Forward roll forward. 
Both you and opponent are flat on ground. 
You have right hand under their chin.
Their arm is over your shoulder and you are controlling near their elbow.

From this position:

1)
Stretch out legs. Look right. Bring knees in. Swing legs over in backwards roll and go into mount.  

2)
If opponent tries to roll to your left. Anaconda choke. Stretch out your arms. Right hand grab beneath your left elbow on your tricep. Left hand goes on opponents back. Feels like an arm triangle. Squeeze arms into your body as move legs around towards opponents legs.




Turtle drills 
1)
Opponent passes your guard to the right. You go into turtle to your left. As you turn, keep your head on the ground. Keep head on the floor and cup your knees

2)
Opponent starts in horse stance behind you. You are cupping your knees. Opponent goes to your right and attempts cloke choke. You defend your neck with your far side arm - left arm. 

3)
Escape from turtle when opponent has their weight forward towards your head.
Opponent is to your left trying to clock choke. 
You are defending your neck using your right hand and left hand is cupping your knee.
Bring your left knee up and out left foot on the floor behind opponent. 
Then do a hip switch with your right leg so you are facing opponent again.

4)
If opponent grabs around you, trap their arm and roll. Trap their arm above their elbow so they cannot easily pull out. Remember to bring knees together before rolling. 
After rolling, control outside of their far leg, not near leg or can get crucifix. do a hip escape away from opponent and keep having away. Can then bring their far leg towards you and mount opponent. 

Judo to improve:
Vs konstantin what to do when opponent is on same line as you.

Back drills:

1)
 drill 1 for taking back when opponent is in tirtle:
Opponent is in turtle and has grabbed around your right leg. Keep opponents head in front of you. Your right hand goes between their arm and legs and makes a frame. Your left hand presses against their neck. Sprawl your legs backwards to break your opponents grip around your leg. Step around to your right, left foot first, then right. Take opponents back and control opponents right hip with your right elbow

2) 
Drill 2 
Opponent is in turtle in front of you. You control opponents back using a wing Chun horse stance. Bring right knee to left side of opponents body. Left knee outstretched. Right elbow controls opponents right hip. 
Then switch back to the middle and then do the same to the right. 

3)
Clock choke when opponent is in turtle in front of you. If opponent is defending their waist so you can't bring your hooks in but has left their neck exposed. 
Move to the left of their body. Right knee is close to their body. Left leg is outstretched out. Right elbow is controlling their far right hip. Bring your left hand deep around opponents neck. Once have the deep grip, switch your right hand so your right armpit is over opponents neck. Armpit directly over opponents neck is a key detail. Then start walking around like a clock.


4)
If opponent is defending their neck, get double lapel underarm. Pull them to the side and get a hook in. For example, pull them left and put right hook in. To put hook in, go with heel first. Drag them to the right. 
Don't release right lapel grip or opponent can escape. Instead release left grip and go over opponents neck into seatbelt. 
Then use right foot to push off the floor and take them to the other good side where you can choke them.


1) Escaping back when opponent has dragged you to their weak side. 
Opponent has your back with seatbelt, right arm around your neck. 
You have fallen to the left so opponent had you in their weak side. 
First defend your neck with both your hands. 
Then you want to pull their choking arm down as shrug your shoulder to release your shoulder and put your head on the mat to your left. 
Then can use left arm to press on opponents knee to stop them from coming ontop and getting mount as you put your hips on the mat, release your leg from opponents hook and try to escape. 
If opponent does take top position, go into half guard. 

If opponent has dragged you onto their strong side, can bridge into opponent and fall to the other side, and then do escape 1)

If opponent defends the bridge by putting pressure forward, use opponents momentum by going onto your knees and rolling them to the other side. Make sure you keep momentum and don't let opponent take your back when you are flat. 







Escaping back control when opponent drags you to their good side. I.e. opponent has your back with seatbelt With right arm around your neck and they drag you to the right.

First defend your neck by grabbing the arm across your neck with both your hands and pulling down. Your left hand goes thumb down from an upwards direction. Your right hand grabs near their tricep.

1) 
If opponents grip is not too tight, pull down their arm a little to make some room. Bring your weight down and slide your head out of opponents arm. A tip is to slide your head out going near opponents armpit. 

Bring opponents arm over your left shoulder. Use your right hand to push opponents arm towards them. This stops them from taking mount. 
Slide your left elbow the floor. 
Keep your left elbow and head on the floor. Bridge and turn your legs onto your knees. Once you are on your knees, then turn your upper body and take the top position. 
Don't try to take top position with your upper body until you have turned onto your knees. 

2)
If opponents grip around your neck is too tight to slide your head out. 
Grab high up opponents tricep with your right hand. Left hand grabs even deeper above your right hand.
Opponent will be trying to slide their elbow back to choke you, so you need to pull their arm to stop this happening. 
Go onto your knees to your left as you pull with your arms. This is like doing a seoi nage. Keep pressure to stop opponent taking your back again.
When you have some room, bring your right elbow in front of opponents body to block them from coming ontop and then wrap your right arm across opponents body and onto their far waist. 







Closed guard attacks

Armbar from closed guard:
Opponent grabs your lapel with their right hand. Use two hands on their wrist pulling upwards to break their grip. If opponent grabs very tightly, can do a mile tyson left hook on their wrist. E.g. grab their wrist with your left hand and punch to the left. 
Once opponents grip is broken, right hand cups behind opponents right tricep and drag their arm slightly across your centreline. Don't pull their arm too far across. 
Left arm goes on opponents left shoulder to keep them down. 
Left foot on opponents right hip. Don't hip escape. Just turn to the right, keeping your hips as close to opponent all the way through. 
Your right foot pushes opponents head away and clamps down. This makes it easy to pass left leg over opponents head. 
Squeeze knees together. Raise hips. Opponents thumb pointing at the ceiling. Finish armbar. 

2) 
Closed guard choke
Right hand cross grip palm up behind opponents right ear. 
Pull opponent down. 
Do same leg and arm movements as if were doing armbar. 
When pass left leg over opponents head.
Push with left leg as make a fist and pull with right hand. 
Trying to block blood going to opponents head.

3)
Armbar set up from choke
Opponent defends choke by putting both hands on your choking arm. 
Use your left hand to push opponents elbow across a little bit and stop them pulling it back. Can then go into armbar from closed guard.

4)
Choke into high guard
Right hand in choke position. 
Open your legs and bring left leg over opponents right shoulder. 

5)
High guard attacks 
Normal armbar from closed guard.
If opponent pulls their right hand out, can do triangle.

If opponents left hand is on the ground, can take your right hand around their arm. Straight armlock, cupping your hands with your right elbow putting pressure on opponents elbow as turn inwards. Opponents wrist should be trapped against side of your head. 



git 